= OembedProviderEngine

Turns your rails app into an {oembed}[http://oembed.com/] provider

== About
{Oembed}[http://oembed.com/] is an open format for embedding media from third-party providers. This gem is a mountable engine that turns your rails 3 app into an oembed provider allowing oembed consumers to easily embed your media resources into their site.

== Usage
=== Installation
Add the following to your Gemfile:

  gem "oembed-provider-engine"

=== Provider Settings
Add a config/initializers/oembed_provider.rb file to configure your provider settings:

  OembedProviderEngine::OembedProvider.provider_name = "Example Provider"
  OembedProviderEngine::OembedProvider.provider_url  = "http://example.com"

If a controller doesn't map to model name as per tablize convention, map it like this:

  OembedProviderEngine::OembedProvider.controller_model_maps = { 'example' => 'FooBar' }

=== Providable Model
To declare your model providable, include the following:

  include OembedProvider::OembedProvidable
  # the first argument is the oembed type, that is one of :rich, :link, :photo, or :video
  oembed_providable_as :rich

Your model has to provide methods to give what oembed_provider expects for your oembed type. Those methods need to make sure that request parameters maxheight and maxwidth are obeyed, see {oembed specs}[http://oembed.com/] for details. 

If the methods have names different from the respective oembed attributes, you need to match them here:

  # data for the oembed attribute 'title' is provided by a method named 'label'
  oembed_providable_as :link, title: :label

You can also override the provider settings from the initializer:

  oembed_providable_as :link, provider_name: 'Example'

=== Discovery
If you want to allow for oembed discovery, you can use the helper function from this engine to add links to the HTML head:

  <%= oembed_provider_links %>

=== Routing
The engine adds a route +/oembed+ to your app, which is your oembed api endpoint. By default, it returns json, but it may as well return xml or json-p. Following the oembed specs, a request parameter format can be used to specify the requested format (xml or json). If you add request parameters variable or callback, json-p is returned instead of json. The engine also provides the additional endpoints +/oembed.xml+ and +/oembed.json+ which return the respective format.

== Security
The current implementation directly accesses your application's model to fetch the data for the response. This may bypass your applicaton's authorization and expose non-public data via oembed if your model does not take this into account! 

== TODO
* proper handling of unauthorized
* migrate from shoulda to rspec
* caching
* allow for custom, additional fields in the response

== Contribute
Feel free to fork the project and send us pull requests.


== Credits
This gem is heavily based upon the rails 2 gem {oembed-provider}[https://github.com/kete/oembed_provider/] originally developed by {Walter McGinnis}[https://github.com/walter] for {kete}[https://github.com/kete].

== Authors

{Kerstin Puschke}[http://github.com/titanoboa],
{Hinnerk Altenburg}[http://github.com/hinnerk-a],
{George Avramidis}[http://github.com/tdgs] and
{Ömür Özkir}[http://github.com/oem]

You can find out more about our work on our {dev blog}[http://devblog.xing.com].

== Contributors

Thanks to all who have made contributions {to this gem}[https://github.com/xing/oembed-provider-engine/contributors] as well as {its rails 2 predecessor}[https://github.com/kete/oembed_provider/contributors].

Copyright (c) 2012 {XING AG}[http://www.xing.com/]

Released under the MIT license. For full details see MIT-LICENSE included in this
distribution.
